README.md, before:

# College Clubs Backend

This is a partial implementation of the API for our final project for Diseño de Sistemas. This repo contains the code of the Express API that will expose certain endpoints notably to get access to our system's main entities.

## Dependency Installation

In order to run this API you'll need to install the required dependencies with:

```text
npm install
```

Or in production with a frozen lock file with:

```text
npm ci
```

## Configuration

You'll need to either set the following environment variables or create a `.env` file with the following:

```text
HTTP_PORT=4000
```

## Running

If in development, you can run the server with reload-on-save with:

```text
npm run dev
```

If in production, you can run the server with:

```text
npm start
```

## Endpoint Documentation

### GET /api/students

Get all the students saved in the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "name": "Christian",
      "lastName": "Lopez",
      "code": "200613",
      "email": "email@example.com",
      "semester": 5,
      "career": "Computer Science",
      "birthday": "1999-07-29",
      "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
      "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
    },
    {
      "name": "Rai",
      "lastName": "Diaz",
      "code": "313223",
      "email": "email@example.com",
      "semester": 5,
      "career": "Computer Science",
      "birthday": "1999-07-29",
      "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
      "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
    },
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/students

Create a new student in the students database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property | Type                | Description                                                   |
|----------|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| name     | String **Required** | Student's name.                                               |
| lastName | String **Required** | Student's last name.                                          |
| code     | String **Required** | Student's code. Must be of **6** characters in length.        |
| email    | String **Required** | Student's email.                                              |
| semester | Number **Required** | Student's current semester. Must be between **1** and **15**. |
| career   | String **Required** | Student's career.                                             |
| birthday | String **Required** | Student's birthday. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.            |
| joinedAt | String **Required** | Student's join date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.           |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/student/:id

Get a particular student from the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/student/:id

Delete a particular student from the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/student/:id

Update a particular student from the students database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property | Type   | Description                                                   |
|----------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| name     | String | Student's name.                                               |
| lastName | String | Student's last name.                                          |
| semester | Number | Student's current semester. Must be between **1** and **15**. |
| career   | String | Student's career.                                             |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/clubs

Get all the clubs saved in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "name": "New Club Name",
      "description": "My Club",
      "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
      "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
      "id": "b49f8d44-2fb4-4d85-be8e-5678f35538d3"
    },
    {
      "name": "Club",
      "description": "My Club",
      "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
      "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
      "id": "1794d4b0-4efa-4441-a38d-c238bc40069e"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/clubs

Create a new club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                           |
|-------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| name        | String **Required** | Club's name.                                          |
| description | String              | Club's description. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| imageURL    | String **Required** | Club's image URL. Must be a valid URI.                |
| createdAt   | String **Required** | Club's creation date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.  |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1794d4b0-4efa-4441-a38d-c238bc40069e"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:id

Get a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1ca625d9-8858-487a-ab61-1e6806237de3"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:id

Delete a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1ca625d9-8858-487a-ab61-1e6806237de3"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:id

Update a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type    | Description                                        |
|-------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------|
| name        | String  | Club's name.                                       |
| description | String  | Club's description. Can be empty or set to `null`. |
| imageURL    | String  | Club's image URL. Must be a valid URI.             |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "New Club Name",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "b49f8d44-2fb4-4d85-be8e-5678f35538d3"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/members

Get all the members inside a particular club in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
      "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
      "nickname": null,
      "imageURL": null,
      "id": "75c2a2c0-47e9-4fa6-ac42-8a4971d14c59",
      "role": "MEMBER"
    },
    {
      "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
      "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
      "nickname": null,
      "imageURL": null,
      "id": "4daf9d6a-75e7-4f4b-8e25-6a1812e19d4a",
      "role": "STAFF"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/club/:clubID/members

Create a new member in a particular club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties. A student may only be in one particular club, meaning that if it's already in one it may not join another simultaneously.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                               |
|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| nickname    | String              | Club member's nickname. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| studentID   | String **Required** | Club member's student ID (not the same as student code).  |
| imageURL    | String              | Club member's profile image URL. Must be a valid URI.     |
| joinedAt    | String **Required** | Club member's join date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.   |
| role        | `MEMBER` or `STAFF` | Club member's role. Defaults to `MEMBER`.                 |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "nickname": null,
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "4daf9d6a-75e7-4f4b-8e25-6a1812e19d4a",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Get a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "nickname": null,
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Delete a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "nickname": "Hi",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Update a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                               |
|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| nickname    | String              | Club member's nickname. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| imageURL    | String              | Club member's profile image URL. Must be a valid URI.     |
| role        | `MEMBER` or `STAFF` | Club member's role.                                       |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "nickname": "Nickname",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/posts

Get all the posts inside a particular club in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
      "content": "post content",
      "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
      "likes": 0,
      "media": [],
      "public": true,
      "id": "f36a2cf9-6449-4001-959b-10b290d4e1bb"
    },
    {
      "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
      "content": "new content",
      "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
      "likes": 10,
      "media": [
        {
          "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
          "description": "my image"
        }
      ],
      "public": false,
      "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/club/:clubID/posts

Create a new post in a particular club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties. The author of the post must be part of the club.

| Property          | Type                | Description                                                                         |
|-------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| author            | String **Required** | Post's author's member ID.                                                          |
| content           | String **Required** | Post's content. Cannot be longer than **2000** characters.                          |
| likes             | Number              | Post's like count. Needs to be a positive number. Defaults to **0**.                |
| createdAt         | String **Required** | Post's creation date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.                                |
| public            | Boolean             | Whether the post should be visible to anyone or just members. Defaults to `true`.   |
| media             | Array               | Post's attached media. Defaults to `[]`.                                            |
| media.url         | String **Required** | Media's URL. Must be a valid URI.                                                   |
| media.description | String              | Media's description. Cannot be longer than **1024** characters. Defaults to `null`. |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Get a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "deaca84c-1580-4f1d-b2af-4e3fa4f74277"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Delete a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "deaca84c-1580-4f1d-b2af-4e3fa4f74277"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Update a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property          | Type     | Description                                                          |
|-------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| content           | String   | Post's content. Cannot be longer than **2000** characters.           |
| likes             | Number   | Post's like count. Needs to be a positive number. Defaults to **0**. |
| public            | Boolean  | Whether the post should be visible to anyone or just members.        |
| media             | Array    | Post's attached media.                                               |
| media.url         | String   | Media's URL. Must be a valid URI.                                    |
| media.description | String   | Media's description. Cannot be longer than **1024** characters.      |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 10,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID/like

Increment the like count of a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 10,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID/dislike

Decrement the like count of a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 9,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

## Authors

This project was created in pair-programming by Raí Díaz, José Luis Contreras and Christian López.

Commit message:

Updated README with init scripts.

README.md, after:

# College Clubs Backend

This is a partial implementation of the API for our final project for Diseño de Sistemas. This repo contains the code of the Express API that will expose certain endpoints notably to get access to our system's main entities.

## Dependency Installation

In order to run this API you'll need to install the required dependencies with:

```text
npm install
```

Or in production with a frozen lock file with:

```text
npm ci
```

## Configuration

You'll need to either set the following environment variables or create a `.env` file with the following:

```text
HTTP_PORT=4000
```

## Initializing

You can initialize the database with mocked data by running the following command:

```text
npm run init
```

## Running

If in development, you can run the server with reload-on-save with:

```text
npm run dev
```

If in production, you can run the server with:

```text
npm start
```

## Endpoint Documentation

### GET /api/students

Get all the students saved in the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "name": "Christian",
      "lastName": "Lopez",
      "code": "200613",
      "email": "email@example.com",
      "semester": 5,
      "career": "Computer Science",
      "birthday": "1999-07-29",
      "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
      "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
    },
    {
      "name": "Rai",
      "lastName": "Diaz",
      "code": "313223",
      "email": "email@example.com",
      "semester": 5,
      "career": "Computer Science",
      "birthday": "1999-07-29",
      "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
      "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
    },
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/students

Create a new student in the students database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property | Type                | Description                                                   |
|----------|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| name     | String **Required** | Student's name.                                               |
| lastName | String **Required** | Student's last name.                                          |
| code     | String **Required** | Student's code. Must be of **6** characters in length.        |
| email    | String **Required** | Student's email.                                              |
| semester | Number **Required** | Student's current semester. Must be between **1** and **15**. |
| career   | String **Required** | Student's career.                                             |
| birthday | String **Required** | Student's birthday. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.            |
| joinedAt | String **Required** | Student's join date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.           |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/student/:id

Get a particular student from the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/student/:id

Delete a particular student from the students database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/student/:id

Update a particular student from the students database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property | Type   | Description                                                   |
|----------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| name     | String | Student's name.                                               |
| lastName | String | Student's last name.                                          |
| semester | Number | Student's current semester. Must be between **1** and **15**. |
| career   | String | Student's career.                                             |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Jose Luis",
    "lastName": "Contreras",
    "code": "124113",
    "email": "email@example.com",
    "semester": 5,
    "career": "Computer Science",
    "birthday": "1999-07-29",
    "joinedAt": "2019-08-15",
    "id": "88c3196d-8f9d-4ae3-987e-eff690db50e0"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/clubs

Get all the clubs saved in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "name": "New Club Name",
      "description": "My Club",
      "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
      "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
      "id": "b49f8d44-2fb4-4d85-be8e-5678f35538d3"
    },
    {
      "name": "Club",
      "description": "My Club",
      "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
      "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
      "id": "1794d4b0-4efa-4441-a38d-c238bc40069e"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/clubs

Create a new club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                           |
|-------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| name        | String **Required** | Club's name.                                          |
| description | String              | Club's description. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| imageURL    | String **Required** | Club's image URL. Must be a valid URI.                |
| createdAt   | String **Required** | Club's creation date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.  |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1794d4b0-4efa-4441-a38d-c238bc40069e"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:id

Get a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1ca625d9-8858-487a-ab61-1e6806237de3"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:id

Delete a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "Club",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "1ca625d9-8858-487a-ab61-1e6806237de3"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:id

Update a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type    | Description                                        |
|-------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------|
| name        | String  | Club's name.                                       |
| description | String  | Club's description. Can be empty or set to `null`. |
| imageURL    | String  | Club's image URL. Must be a valid URI.             |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "name": "New Club Name",
    "description": "My Club",
    "imageURL": "https://example.com/img.jpg",
    "createdAt": "2019-02-03",
    "id": "b49f8d44-2fb4-4d85-be8e-5678f35538d3"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/members

Get all the members inside a particular club in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
      "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
      "nickname": null,
      "imageURL": null,
      "id": "75c2a2c0-47e9-4fa6-ac42-8a4971d14c59",
      "role": "MEMBER"
    },
    {
      "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
      "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
      "nickname": null,
      "imageURL": null,
      "id": "4daf9d6a-75e7-4f4b-8e25-6a1812e19d4a",
      "role": "STAFF"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/club/:clubID/members

Create a new member in a particular club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties. A student may only be in one particular club, meaning that if it's already in one it may not join another simultaneously.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                               |
|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| nickname    | String              | Club member's nickname. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| studentID   | String **Required** | Club member's student ID (not the same as student code).  |
| imageURL    | String              | Club member's profile image URL. Must be a valid URI.     |
| joinedAt    | String **Required** | Club member's join date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.   |
| role        | `MEMBER` or `STAFF` | Club member's role. Defaults to `MEMBER`.                 |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "nickname": null,
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "4daf9d6a-75e7-4f4b-8e25-6a1812e19d4a",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Get a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "nickname": null,
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Delete a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "nickname": "Hi",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/member/:memberID

Update a particular member from a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property    | Type                | Description                                               |
|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| nickname    | String              | Club member's nickname. Can be empty or set to `null`.    |
| imageURL    | String              | Club member's profile image URL. Must be a valid URI.     |
| role        | `MEMBER` or `STAFF` | Club member's role.                                       |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "studentID": "afe77ced-0bf2-4f6f-901c-9877def51b27",
    "joinedAt": "2021-04-04",
    "imageURL": null,
    "id": "2ad12899-232d-4499-9cbb-a9bd7fe42f8a",
    "nickname": "Nickname",
    "role": "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/posts

Get all the posts inside a particular club in the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": [
    {
      "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
      "content": "post content",
      "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
      "likes": 0,
      "media": [],
      "public": true,
      "id": "f36a2cf9-6449-4001-959b-10b290d4e1bb"
    },
    {
      "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
      "content": "new content",
      "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
      "likes": 10,
      "media": [
        {
          "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
          "description": "my image"
        }
      ],
      "public": false,
      "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
    }
  ]
}
```

### POST /api/club/:clubID/posts

Create a new post in a particular club in the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties. The author of the post must be part of the club.

| Property          | Type                | Description                                                                         |
|-------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| author            | String **Required** | Post's author's member ID.                                                          |
| content           | String **Required** | Post's content. Cannot be longer than **2000** characters.                          |
| likes             | Number              | Post's like count. Needs to be a positive number. Defaults to **0**.                |
| createdAt         | String **Required** | Post's creation date. Must be **ISO8601 compliant**.                                |
| public            | Boolean             | Whether the post should be visible to anyone or just members. Defaults to `true`.   |
| media             | Array               | Post's attached media. Defaults to `[]`.                                            |
| media.url         | String **Required** | Media's URL. Must be a valid URI.                                                   |
| media.description | String              | Media's description. Cannot be longer than **1024** characters. Defaults to `null`. |

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 201,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### GET /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Get a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "deaca84c-1580-4f1d-b2af-4e3fa4f74277"
  }
}
```

### DELETE /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Delete a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "post content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 0,
    "media": [],
    "public": true,
    "id": "deaca84c-1580-4f1d-b2af-4e3fa4f74277"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID

Update a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database. Requires an `application/json` body with the following properties.

| Property          | Type     | Description                                                          |
|-------------------|----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| content           | String   | Post's content. Cannot be longer than **2000** characters.           |
| likes             | Number   | Post's like count. Needs to be a positive number. Defaults to **0**. |
| public            | Boolean  | Whether the post should be visible to anyone or just members.        |
| media             | Array    | Post's attached media.                                               |
| media.url         | String   | Media's URL. Must be a valid URI.                                    |
| media.description | String   | Media's description. Cannot be longer than **1024** characters.      |

> Only add the properties you wish to edit.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 10,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID/like

Increment the like count of a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 10,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

### PATCH /api/club/:clubID/post/:postID/dislike

Decrement the like count of a particular post from a particular club from the clubs database.

#### Response

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "status": 200,
  "data": {
    "author": "25082523-3a3e-4d7e-8e4d-c63773dc9f46",
    "content": "new content",
    "createdAt": "2021-04-04",
    "likes": 9,
    "media": [
      {
        "url": "http://example.com/image.jpg",
        "description": "my image"
      }
    ],
    "public": false,
    "id": "33090d9f-486f-4939-b2f5-c497b53a5622"
  }
}
```

## Authors

This project was created in pair-programming by Raí Díaz, José Luis Contreras and Christian López.
